# grade_analysis
Since universities are prestigious places of higher education, students’ retention in these universities is a matter of high concern. It has been found that most of the students’ drop-out from the universities during their first year is due to lack of proper support in undergraduate courses. Due to this reason, the first year of the undergraduate student is referred as a “make or break” year. Without getting any support on the course domain and its complexity, it may demotivate a student and can be the cause to withdraw the course. 
There is a great need to develop an appropriate solution to assist students’ retention at higher education institutions. Early grade prediction is one of the solutions that have a tendency to monitor students’ progress in the degree courses at the University and will lead to improving the students’ learning process based on predicted grades. 
Using machine learning with Educational Data Mining can improve the learning process of students. Different models can be developed to predict students’ grades in the enrolled courses, which provide valuable information to facilitate students’ retention in those courses. This information can be used to early identify students at-risk based on which a system can 1 suggest the instructors to provide special attention to those students. This information can also help in predicting the students’ grades in different courses to monitor their performance in a better way that can enhance the students’ retention rate of the universities. 
Using various packages such as cufflinks, seaborn & matplotlib to represent the data along with different attributes graphically or pictorially to analyse the dataset for predicting the Final Grade(G3).
